Clinical Trial Title: Does Lead Burden Alter Neuropsychological Development?

Brief Summary: Inner city children are at an increased risk for lead overburden. This in turn affects
cognitive functioning. However, the underlying neuropsychological effects of lead
overburden and its age-specific effects have not been well delineated. This study is part
of a larger study on the effects of lead overburden on the development of attention and
memory. The larger study is using a multi-model approach to study the effects of lead
overburden on these effects including the event-related potential (ERP),
electrophysiologic measures of attention and memory are studied. Every eight months, for
a total of three sessions the subjects will complete ERP measures of attention and memory
which require them to watch various computer images while wearing scalp electrodes
recording from 11 sites. It is this test that we are going to be doing on CRC. There will
be 30 lead overburdened children recruited from the larger study for participation in the
ERP studies on CRC. These 30 children will be matched with 30 children without lead
overburden. This portion of the study is important in providing an index of physiological
functioning to be used along with behaviorally based measures of attention and memory,
and for providing information about the different measures.

Draft a comprehensive clinical trial report that includes the following sections:
1. Objectives
2. Methods
3. Results
4. Conclusions
5. Acknowledgments
6. References

Ensure that each section is clearly labeled and contains detailed, structured information. This will make it easier for researchers, clinicians, families, and friends to recognize what are known to be the clinical effect

of lead overburdened children and may contribute to improved understanding of CRC outcomes.

To make the trial useful to the family, we may use a variety of publications to share our findings with their readership, as well as

to document the findings and recommendations for parents, clinicians, and family.

We do have one goal for the study:

to make it possible for parents to know that children raised by lead embrittled parents and their children are at increased risk for lead overburden

2. Research Methods

Research Methods

Subjects

The Subjects

For this study the following characteristics were tested:

(i) The number of participants

(ii) The number of participants and their age.

The mean age of the participants was 30 years and that the participants reported being from poor backgrounds (18–50 years).

The mean age of the participants was 35 years and that the participants reported having been in a mental institution for over 10 years.

The mean age of the participants was 25 years and that the participants reported being homeless in their last year of schooling.

The mean age of the participants was 22 years and that the participants reported being in a low socioeconomic status.

The mean age of the participants was 21 years and that the participants reported being in a high income household.

The mean age of the participants was 21 years and that the participants reported having been in a high school or middle school household.

The mean age of the participants was 21 years and that the participants reported having gone to school outside of the study population.

We are the researchers responsible for identifying subjects for this study. We will be conducting the research in collaboration with the National Academy of Sciences and the CDC (http://cdc.gov/drug/genetics/pk-01/).

The study will consist of:

a. the study of the effects of lead underweight, a comparison of the effects of lead in children from the group of children with lead embrittled and their children

b. the study of the cognitive and functional impairment associated with the impact of lead embrittled adults on CRC

c. a comprehensive and complete case-control study of the effect of lead embrittled children on the cognitive function of their families

d. a comprehensive and complete case-control study of the effects of lead embrittled children on the brain functions of their children

e. a comprehensive case-control study of the effects of lead embrittled children on the development of attentional processes

f. the most recent systematic review (http://www.ncbi.nlm.nih.gov/pubmed/24121905) on the effects of lead embrittled adults on the development of attentional processes and the development of cognitive performance in children from birth. The National Institute of Child Health and Human Development (NICHD) is conducting an intensive, prospective, systematic review of prospective studies

g. a case-control study of the effects of lead embrittled children on the development of attentional