Clinical Trial Title: Correction of Myopia Evaluation Trial (COMET)

Brief Summary: To evaluate whether progressive addition lenses (PALs) slow the rate of progression of
juvenile-onset myopia (nearsightedness) when compared with single vision lenses, as
measured by cycloplegic autorefraction. An additional outcome measure is axial length, as
measured by A-scan ultrasonography.

To describe the natural history of juvenile-onset myopia in a group of children receiving
conventional treatment (single vision lenses).

Draft a comprehensive clinical trial report that includes the following sections:
1. Objectives
2. Methods
3. Results
4. Conclusions
5. Acknowledgments
6. References

Ensure that each section is clearly labeled and contains detailed, structured information.

Use the full manuscript online at http://scholarship.academia.edu/content/articles/1/e10.

The National Eye Blind Foundation (NEF) supports efforts to improve the quality of life and sight performance of Americans with sight and hearing loss; to identify possible research programs and public health policies in order to address the serious causes of eye blindness; and to support the clinical trials and development and research goals for eye-blind patients and their families.

National Eye Blind Foundation (NEDF) grant N00073934 is a private non-profit organization that provides training to adults with vision impairments, adult vision impairments, and children with vision impairments.

NEDF's Office of the Research Coordinator is located in the Department of Clinical and Translational Neurology and is responsible for coordinating the implementation and dissemination of research and clinical trials to ensure that NIH, NEF, and the Department of Neurology have the necessary resources in place to conduct eye-blind clinical trials. NIH funding and NIH funding decisions (including approval) have been made through the Office of the Clinical Research Coordinator, NEDF's research and clinical trials liaison and the National Research Council's Research and Evaluation Center, or QTC (qTC is the division of NIH in this publication).

For more information on the NEDF Research and Evaluation Center, visit: http://www.ni.nih.gov/projects/research.

NIH Publications, 2011:11077-11082; http://www.nih.gov/pubmed/22056788.

American Eye Blind Foundation: An International Conference on Eyeblind Research (2011). http://www.audf.org/pubs/glbd/glbd-11080.pdf.